remove mention of building blocks and blocks from documentation (#1660)
open-contracting/standard: docs/schema/reference.md

A release has a [tag](codelists.md#release-tag) to indicate whether it is about a planning process or a contracting process and, if it is about the latter, to indicate the stage of the contracting process to which it relates. However, there are no formal restrictions on when information about a stage of the process can be provided.

> For example, a publisher announcing the signing of a contract with a 'contract' tag might also include information in the award and tender objects in order to provide a comprehensive picture of the contracting process to date which led to that contract being signed. 

Reviewer: `awards` is an array.

```suggestion
For example, a publisher announcing the signing of a contract with a 'contract' tag might also include information in the awards array and tender object in order to provide a comprehensive picture of the contracting process to date which led to that contract being signed. 
```

### Award

> The `awards` array is used to announce any awards issued for this tender. There can be multiple awards made, each of which must be detailed using the `Award` subschema. Releases can contain all, or a subset, of these awards. Awards contain information about suppliers. In particular cases there can be multiple suppliers for a single award: for example, in the case of [consortia](../guidance/map/buyers_suppliers.md#consortia-suppliers) and in [framework agreements](../guidance/map/framework_agreements).

Reviewer: Remove contradictory sentence.

```suggestion
The `awards` array is used to announce any awards issued for this tender. Releases can contain all, or a subset, of these awards. Awards contain information about suppliers. In particular cases there can be multiple suppliers for a single award: for example, in the case of [consortia](../guidance/map/buyers_suppliers.md#consortia-suppliers) and in [framework agreements](../guidance/map/framework_agreements).
```

Author: I don't see how this is contradictory? It's trying to make it clear that the `awards` array (of which there is only one) is made up of `Award` objects (of which there can be multiple). This is why the word awards in this sentence isn't surrounded by backticks, because it's just referring to the concept, not the object. Without this I don't think it's clear how the `Award` object is related to the `awards` array, or how the `awards` array is populated.

Reviewer: I read the sentence as setting a normative rule that all awards (in the real-life contracting process) must appear in `awards`, whilst the following sentence says that a release can contain only a subset of the awards.

I don't think we need to say "there can be multiple", otherwise we'd need to explain that for each array in the schema.

I'm not sure it's important to mention the subschema, I think it would be sufficient to add an introductory sentence like "Each `Award` has the following fields:" before the jsonschema directive.

Reviewer: @jpmckinney this comes up in a few places so it would be good to know what you think - do we need to explicitly mention the subschema used in arrays like `awards`, `contracts`, `amendments` etc.?

Author: I remember some of my thinking about this as I did give this a lot of thought at the time. This is linked to the consideration of entirely restructuring this page https://github.com/open-contracting/standard/issues/1075.

The subheadings under "Release structure" are all supposed to be the high level objects. So `planning`, `tender` etc. But while `planning`, `tender` are single objects, `awards` and `contracts` are arrays of objects. It's the objects within the array that are being described, but the heading is talking about the array. So it needs to be made clear that the fields being discussed aren't in the array, they're in the objects that the array contains. 

Ideally I think `Award` and `Contract` need their own sub-sections in the "Subschema reference" section similar to how `Document` and `Period` are in there. I suspect the thinking behind not putting them there is that `Award` and `Contract` can only be used in a single place each, but they can both be used multiple times which I think makes them subschema and therefore deserving of their own subsection in the "Subschema reference" section. That would leave the `awards` and `contracts` subsections under "Release structure" to not have to mention them.

Reviewer: Yeah, I'd also favour listing `Award` and `Contract` in the subschema section for consistency. I think that'll be addressed as a part of the larger restructure discussed in https://github.com/open-contracting/standard/issues/1075.

> It's the objects within the array that are being described, but the heading is talking about the array. So it needs to be made clear that the fields being discussed aren't in the array, they're in the objects that the array contains.

Hmm, fields (key-value pairs) can't be 'in an array' without belonging to an object so I'm not sure this really needs explaining, but if you think it's important to be more explicit about the relationship between the `awards` array and `Award` objects, perhaps the sentence introducing the jsonschema directive could be:

> The items in the `awards` array are `Award` objects. Each `Award` has the following fields:

Author: I'm happy with that suggestion, I'll make that change and do the same for the other instances of the same issue

Reviewer 2: > @jpmckinney this comes up in a few places so it would be good to know what you think - do we need to explicitly mention the subschema used in arrays like awards, contracts, amendments etc.?

Without the context of the full PR, I would say such sentences are unnecessary. We generally have a subschema for each array, so it would be kind of repetitive.

### Award

> The award section is used to announce any awards issued for this tender. There can be multiple awards made. Releases can contain all, or a subset, of these awards. A related award object is required for every contract object, as the award contains information on the suppliers. In particular cases there can be multiple suppliers for a single award: for example, in the case of [consortia](../guidance/map/buyers_suppliers.md#consortia-suppliers) and in [framework agreements](../guidance/map/framework_agreements).

Reviewer: I think it makes more sense to explain that each contract must be linked to an award under the contract heading so I would omit that part here and add it there instead.

```suggestion
The award section is used to announce any awards issued for this tender. There can be multiple awards made. Releases can contain all, or a subset, of these awards. Awards contain information about suppliers. In particular cases there can be multiple suppliers for a single award: for example, in the case of [consortia](../guidance/map/buyers_suppliers.md#consortia-suppliers) and in [framework agreements](../guidance/map/framework_agreements).
```

### Contract

> The `contracts` array is used to provide details of contracts that have been entered into. Every contract must have a related award, linked via the `awardID` field. This is because supplier information is contained within the 'award'. Each contract is detailed using the `Contract` subschema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `contracts` array is used to provide details of contracts that have been entered into. Every contract must have a related award, linked via the `awardID` field. This is because supplier information is contained within the 'award'.
```

Author: again I think this is needed otherwise the actual subschema that contains the data fields isn't being mentioned anywhere

### Implementation

> Implementation information can be updated over the course of a contract. The `implementation` array belongs nested within the contract it relates to. The `Implementation` subschema includes the following fields:

Reviewer: `contracts.implementation` is an object.

```suggestion
Implementation information can be updated over the course of a contract. The `implementation` object belongs nested within the contract it relates to. It includes the following fields:
```

Author: oops, forgot the array was nested within it!

### Implementation

> Implementation information can be updated over the course of a contract. It belongs nested within the contract it relates to. Implementation objects include the following elements:

Reviewer: I think this sentence describes the schema rather than data. Also, use 'fields' rather than 'elements'.

```suggestion
Implementation information can be updated over the course of a contract. It belongs nested within the contract it relates to. The implementation sub-schema includes the following fields:
```

:collapse: providerOrganization,receiverOrganization,amount,payer,payee,value
```

> The transaction object is modelled on the [International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI) transaction element](https://iatistandard.org/en/iati-standard/203/activity-standard/iati-activities/iati-activity/transaction/), and can be used to represent actual flows of money between organizations in relation to this contract. As with the [budget](#budget) object, this can be used to cross-reference to a third party `source` of data, and ought to reuse identifiers from that source.

Reviewer: This sentence describes the schema rather than data.

```suggestion
The `Transaction` sub-schema is modelled on the [International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI) transaction element](https://iatistandard.org/en/iati-standard/203/activity-standard/iati-activities/iati-activity/transaction/), and can be used to represent actual flows of money between organizations in relation to this contract. As with the [budget](#budget) object, this can be used to cross-reference to a third party `source` of data, and ought to reuse identifiers from that source.
```

See [milestone](#milestone) reference below.

The implementation milestones should be updated to reflect when they are met.

#### Documents

Documents related to contract implementation are stored here. This can include subcontracts.

See [document](#document) reference below.

### Amendment

A release may amend values from a previous release. Whilst the release & record model of OCDS offers the opportunity to keep a full versioned history of changes, in many cases it is important for changes to a tender, award or contract to be explicitly declared.

> The `amendments` array in a `tender`, `Award` or `Contract` object provides the ability to detail the amendments that have taken place with dates, rationale and free-text descriptions of the change, as well as to point to the releases that contain information from before and after the amendment. Each amendment is detailed using the `Amendment` subschema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `amendments` array in a `tender`, `Award` or `Contract` object provides the ability to detail the amendments that have taken place with dates, rationale and free-text descriptions of the change, as well as to point to the releases that contain information from before and after the amendment.
```

Author: again I think this is useful to link the subschema that will populate the array

A release may amend values from a previous release. Whilst the release & record model of OCDS offers the opportunity to keep a full versioned history of changes, in many cases it is important for changes to a tender, award or contract to be explicitly declared.

> The amendment array in a tender, award or contract objects provides the ability to detail the amendments that have taken place with dates, rationale and free-text descriptions of the change, as well as to point to the releases that contain information from before and after the amendment.

Reviewer: I don't think including the type adds anything here.

```suggestion
The amendment array in a tender, award or contract provides the ability to detail the amendments that have taken place with dates, rationale and free-text descriptions of the change, as well as to point to the releases that contain information from before and after the amendment.
```

Author: In this case I do think the type is needed, otherwise there's potential for confusion as to what exactly is being meant but tender, award or contract, is it the data object or is it the conceptual thing the data is describing. Whilst it should be obvious that its the data given where this sentence is I don't see the harm in making it explicit.

See the [amendment implementation guidance](../guidance/map/amendments) for more details.
```

> ## Object reference

Reviewer: This page describes the schema so it should be 'sub-schema' rather than 'object'

```suggestion
## Sub-schema reference
```

Author: My reason for not originally making this change is that there are sub-schema not under this heading but under the "Release structure" heading, some either link down to something that is under this heading or use the term "sub-schema" to describe themselves but not all do, some e.g. Contract, instead refer to themselves as a "section". I think this also has the potential to cause confusion, what is a section if not sub-schema? I can see that the way it's been divided is that it's only repeated sub-schema that are under the "Object/Sub-schema reference" heading, but this heading doesn't make this clear. Happy to be told I'm overthinking this.

> The following sub-schema are commonly re-used throughout the standard.

Reviewer: Sub-schema is singular.

```suggestion
The following sub-schemas are commonly re-used throughout the standard.
```

An organization reference consists of two main components:

> * An `id` used to cross-reference the entry in the [parties](#parties) array that contains full information on this organization;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An `id` used to cross-reference the object in the [parties](#parties) array that contains full information on this organization;
```

#### Identifier

> The identifier object provides a way to [identify the legal entities](identifiers.md#organization-identifiers) involved in a contracting (or planning) process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The identifier sub-schema provides a way to [identify the legal entities](identifiers.md#organization-identifiers) involved in a contracting (or planning) process.
```

### Document

> Documents can be attached at a number of points within the standard: to planning, tenders, awards, contracts and implementation. Each document object can consist of multiple documents, classified using the [documentType](codelists.md#document-type) codelist.

Reviewer: A `Document` object only represents a single document.

```suggestion
Documents can be attached at a number of points within the standard: to planning, tenders, awards, contracts and implementation. Each documents array can consist of multiple documents, classified using the [documentType](codelists.md#document-type) codelist.
```

### Item

> The `Item` subschema is used to describe the line-items associated with a tender, award or contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Item` subschema is used to represent the line-items associated with a tender, award or contract.
```

### Item

> The items object is used to list the line-items associated with a tender, award or contract. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Item` sub-schema is used to describe the line-items associated with a tender, award or contract. 
```

#### Unit

> The `unit` object allows detailed specification of the parameters and price of units that make up a line-item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `unit` sub-schema allows detailed specification of the parameters and price of units that make up a line-item.
```

### Milestone

> Milestone information can be included in the [planning](#planning), [tender](#tender), [contract](#contract) and [contract implementation](#implementation) objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Milestone information can be included in [planning](#planning), [tender](#tender), [contract](#contract) and [contract implementation](#implementation) objects.
```

Author: I think the 'the' is needed, if it was just one thing in the list "Milestone information can be included in planning object" wouldn't be right, it needs the "the"

Reviewer: Hmm, I'm not a grammar expert, but if there was one thing in the list I think the sentence would be "Milestone information can be included in planning object**s**" because we're not talking about a specific instance of a planning object, rather we're talking about planning objects in general.

Author: well out of the three of us I suspect @jpmckinney is the grammar expert so I'll leave it to him in his review :)

Reviewer 2: It's fine either way, but I think it reads better without "the" because we're not trying to pick out specific objects.

Author: "the" removed in https://github.com/open-contracting/standard/pull/1660/commits/b8b7ca73ed0fb665048b1841ed287044447029fe

* When a contract results in the award of sub-contracts - and those sub-contracts are also tracked using OCDS;
* When a contract is coming up for renewal or replacement, and there is a contracting process to award  the renewal/replacement contract;

> In all these cases, the `relatedProcess` object should be used to cross-reference between the relevant contracting processes using their `ocid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In all these cases, the `relatedProcess` sub-schema should be used to cross-reference between the relevant contracting processes using their `ocid`.
```

* When one planning process results in many tenders;
* When a contract is awarded following two distinct, but related, tender processes, such as in national frameworks with locally run mini-competitions;

> * When a contract results in the award of subcontracts - and those subcontracts are also tracked using OCDS;

Reviewer: The RelatedProcess reference needs updating per https://github.com/open-contracting/standard/issues/1713 so I haven't reviewed the changes here.

**(2) At the contract level** - used to point onward to sub-contracts, renewal or replacement processes that relate solely to the particular contract the field appears in.

> As well as providing this machine-readable link between processes, publishers may also provide links to human-readable documentation in the relevant `documents` objects. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As well as providing this machine-readable link between processes, publishers may also provide links to human-readable documentation in the relevant `documents` arrays. For example:
```
